This is the second interview with General Becker.
Today is July 2nd, 1981, and last time we were
talking about, I think we finished a conversation
on the Philippines. Is that true? Well, we got into
the invasion of the Philippines. Yeah, we were
talking about that. We could wind that up by
briefly concluding the campaign in the
Philippines. We haven't done that. Of course, my
entire World War II experience was with the 1st
Cavalry Division, which had been organized,
reorganized really as a light infantry division.
And from that invasion of the Lady Islands, the
division went on up to Luzon,
the major island, you know. Right. And some of our
proudest accomplishments resulted from that
operation. We went into after the invasion of
Luzon by other forces. And General Walsh Kruger,
the 6th Army Commander,
gave the first count on the mission to proceed
through all other units straight to Manila, which
was 300 kilometers away. to
seize the seat of government, the Malacanon
Palace. Our first objective was to liberate the
prisoners at Santa Tomas University. And the
division was provided tanks and trucks to put
everybody on wheels or tracks and just set go. In
three days we were there and those missions were
accomplished. In three days you went 300
kilometers? Yeah. How was the fighting? Well, it
was only very light because we just completely
surprised the enemy. It was very light until we'd
actually seized the objective. Of course, there
were some small battles along the way. But it was
very successful because of the element of
surprise and speed of the And they'd never seen
anything like that, of course, in the war, in the
jungles. Well, of course, in Luzon, you had a
fairly decent road net, and this was possible. And
then, of course, the laborious process of
cleaning the enemy out of Manila followed,
because as time went on, of course, they step in
there, resolve in resistance, and it took some
months. to get that job done before we aimed at
invasion of Japan, which will come later I'm
guessing here, which thankfully never occurred.
Right. In the Philippines, the Japanese had a
General Yamashita, who was a so-called Tiger of
Manila, and he was the first man after the Second
World War to be
to be found guilty of war crimes and then executed.
You were right there on the scene and of course this
caused a flap early in 1946 and it has since. You
were right there on the scene. How did the Jap- how
did the Japanese soldiers behave? Were they
committing war crimes in your opinion? Well I
think this evidence used against Jim Ashita
related to the initial battle of the Philippines.
In which our troops at Corregidor Baton in the
Philippines surrendered to the Japanese and then
were so badly mistreated from then to the end of the
war. But the death march, for example, occurred
then.
But to answer your question, I have no, I did not
witness,
of course, I wouldn't witness directly any
Japanese atrocities. I think we saw evidence of
atrocities. For example? Well. The Filipinos, of
course, they were supposed to be. Yeah, it's that
sort of thing, it's a surmise because you don't see
it. But when you see mutilations, for example, of
certain types. There were bodies mutilated along
the road when you were going to Manila? At times.
You'd see this in different areas. Now, it's a
gruesome thing to get into, but was the person dead
before or after? But I think the thing we all
recognized was that the individual Japanese
soldier was a very good fighting soldier.
I think as you got up to their larger units, they
were less a match for our corresponding units. But
the one thing that made the Japanese soldier so
effective was that he was trained and conditioned
and motivated to fight to the death. And given that
conviction, he'll do anything until he's killed.
And very few of them didn't have the courage to do
that, you know, fight to the death. More so than
Americans? Well,
we at least didn't teach that philosophy. But I
don't think you'll find any more courageous
soldiers anywhere than the American soldiers. I
think our particulates as larger units, but even
on the small unit level, our tactics were so
superior to the Japanese that the fact was we
usually won our battles and our soldiers were very
seldom found in such desperate situations that
they'd ever have to make a choice like that well you
said before we didn't teach that philosophy
toward
well the philosophy taught the Japanese fight to
the death or do yourself in what did we teach Well, I
think we concentrated on preparing soldiers for
battle and certainly any
soldier, particularly the doughboy, whose job is
to close with the enemy and seize critical
terrain, recognizes that You don't have to tell
him he'll fight to the death. He knows that he'll go
to the objective, whatever is required. He is
committed to the objective. Now, no commander is
going to waste life intentionally. He's not going
to get people in a situation where the casualties
are going to be
unexpected or unreasonable. But you can't define
those things in any given situation. to the finite
point
but I think
there's no apology to be made for the American
soldier in any war that I've no I just wanted a
difference between the two his individual
courage to do whatever is necessary to the death
what were the conditions when he got to Manila when
we got to Manila of course it was intact run down
some because the economy had been affected so
much. The General MacArthur's orders were that we
would not use artillery or bombing within the city
unless it was an absolutely essential thing and
then our headquarters would help decide that
because he wanted to retake the city without
serious damage and devastation. But of course,
that didn't work because the Japanese just
started systematically demolishing the areas in
the areas in which they retained control until
they were pushed out. So in the end, the city was
pretty badly destroyed, parts of it were. And some
parts we had to lift that policy, of course.
So both sides contributed to destruction in the
areas which we had to fight. Were the Filipinos
happy to see you coming? Oh, they certainly were.
They certainly were. I guess, you know, our troops
having come through so many hundreds and hundreds
of miles of jungles to get there and to see that
reaction, even in Leyte, in that initial invasion
of the Philippines, uh kind of made you realize
better what what you were fighting for you know
it was a boost to the troops it really was of course a
tremendous boost to the people of the Philippines
when they realized that we were back
were there other problems with securing the area
of course we left we left the Philippines before
the enemy was totally defeated to move on
That's true. As a matter of fact, our
division, 1st Cavalry Division, wound up in
southern Luzon
in a camp preparing to go into the invasion of
Japan. Let's see, I guess it was August we came and
assembled there, August of 45.
And
then, of course, the atomic bomb was dropped in
late August, or in August. July and August, we
assembled there. And the war was over. But we were
immediately put on ships to go out to move into
Yokohama and Tokyo, our division was, to secure
the area for occupation. Do you remember what you
were feeling? Shortly after we left, and after the
surrender, I understand that there were some
4,000 Japanese troops surrendered very near
where our division camp had been in the mountains
above there. We'd been fighting, but we really
didn't realize there were that many troops in
there. So you're right. We certainly hadn't wiped
them out. Do you remember your feelings? In
August, when you heard about the atomic bomb? I
sure do. I thought
it was a very courageous decision of President
Truman to do this. Of course, it was just the fact
that we had the thing. This was our first
knowledge. It was just almost unbelievable. And
then to hear the
description of the effects of it was just beyond
because it was such a great leap from any measure of
effectiveness that we'd ever known. It was
awe-inspiring,
I would say. And then, of course, we were, after the
news of the first bomb, we just couldn't see how
anyone could, any enemy could continue, and sure
enough, it wasn't long until that was a fact, and
Everybody was relieved we didn't have to fight in
Japan, because I think that would have been
extremely... Having seen how the individual
Japanese fought in the jungles, thousands of
miles away from home, we could see some measure of
the task ahead in defeating the Japanese on their
home ground. Now, since the dropping of the bomb,
that maneuver by, or that action by Truman has
caused a lot of a lot of debate among different
groups in America, people saying that, well, we
shouldn't have done it, and other people saying
that we should have, some saying it was against
humanitarian law, whatever that is. What was your
opinion? Oh, no question. I've never felt that it
was a mistake. It's a shame that those people had to
be sacrificed in Hiroshima and Nagasaki. But at
the same time, great multiples of Japanese lives
in excess of that would have been lost, in my
opinion, had we had to invade Japan. Not to mention
our losses, which I think President Truman was
absolutely correct. He was in a position to
estimate. He had estimates, I'm sure. He was in a
position to know. In general, what the prospects
were for the alternative invasion. And I've never
seen those figures. I may have heard them at some
time, but I'm sure that he couldn't in good
conscience sacrifice that many American lives
when he had the tool in his hand to prevent it. No
president could. Do you remember where you were on
B.J. Day? On V-J Day,
I was, I don't remember the exact spot, but I was,
you talking about the surrender day? Yeah. The
actual surrender day of the ceremony. Oh, I
remember that very well. I finally recall where I
was when I first learned that the emperors said we
were going to quit. September the 1st? It was early
September. September the 1st, I believe, or the
3rd. Yes. I was aboard a naval ship with the major
elements in a convoy that consisted of the major
elements of our 1st Cavalry Division sailing into
Tokyo
Bay Harbor. And as a matter of fact, we had coming
over our ship's radio broadcast of General
MacArthur's ceremony on the battleship Missouri
just across the water there. So you were in the bay,
actually? So we were coming in to land at the time
they were actually signing that ceremony. See,
we'd been alerted to come on up. Now, the 11th
Airborne Division had flown elements into
Yokohama ahead of us. And when we arrived, they
went on inland to another area. and uh but yes that
was a very dramatic moment for all of us who I'm sure
all of these ships were receiving that broadcast
and we were right there physically passing the
Missouri at the time I bet you they really had the
Missouri decked out well we couldn't see too well
But, of course, having seen later the movies of it,
you know, the moving pictures of it, it was a
tremendously dramatic moment of history. Were
there a lot of ships in the bay? Yes, there were
quite a number. Of course, a lot of Navy in there at
that time. What were you on? We were on a LST, my
outfit was.
And we were very lightly equipped. We left much of
our heavier equipment back because they wanted us
up there real fast and put us- I said LST, we were on a
an APA I'm sorry the LST was considered to be too
slow and they came later with the rest of the
division bringing the heavier equipment but we
came all that whole convoy was APA or faster and so
we moved very rapidly in there and then it was very
interesting and a rather puzzling thing we went so
hurriedly because all this occurred you know
after the atomic bomb was dropped and moved so
rapidly. I'm sure John MacArthur's headquarters
had long had tentative plans for occupation of
Japan, but it would have appeared before August of
1945 that that date was way in the future. But when
we loaded up the light elements of our division to
go to Tokyo, Yokohama, after we got aboard, we were
given general plan and instructions for the
occupation of the areas we were to be assigned once
we got there. Once we got there our division was
told to go ashore in the dock areas of Yokohama and
remain there and not move out of the dock area until
further orders. We knew that there were about a
quarter million Japanese troops in this area at
the time and this surrender everyone was very
hopeful of course that it would stick and that this
meant everybody was going to surrender and that
turned out of course to be the case so you had no
incidents in which a troop would start shooting at
Americans I know of none it was a remarkable thing
I must say that I some others were so curious I got in
a jeep and I'll never forget this I got in a jeep with
one of my officers I was commanding the 6th 1st
People's Artillery Battalion at that time
and a driver and just drove out a bit to just have a
little bit of a look at the city and the Japanese had
been instructed to continue their normal routine
we came out at about quitting time in the afternoon
Masses of people were out on the street waiting for
streetcars. And as we would drive by, they would
all turn their backs to us. No kidding. They'd turn
their backs. If they were in the bus and someone
looked out and saw us, they'd turn their faces
away. And yet there was never a, this was their, I
guess, a way of showing their embarrassment.
that is fascinating there was in those early days
and thereafter there was never any really
hostility it was an amazing experience
I think the of course one thing he shows is the great
discipline of the Japanese
and all those troops in the months weeks and months
later all those troops were disarmed disbanded
Japanese. All that equipment gathered up. That
was a tremendous task. You can't imagine what a
task the occupation forces had initially in
gathering up all this. There were ammunition
dumps with thousands of tons of ammunition. What
do you do with all that stuff? What did you do? Well,
I think most of it went into the ocean. airplanes on
airfields. How do you destroy them? My unit, the
direct support field artillery battalion, had
the mission of putting out of action hundreds of
aircraft on an airfield. How'd you do it? Well, we
did it with,
what do you call that stuff? What we do is try to get
into the engine with a, it's not an explosive, but
it's a very hot burning material. and you know melt
enough of it to be inoperable
and of course all kinds of weapons and things to be
done so uh and what'd you do with the weapons well
did you destroy them all or did you decide to just
keep them in the armory or no the uh most of them were
destroyed or dumped was there a fear that we should
hurry up and destroy them before the Japanese well
you can imagine Japan was uh while they had a lot of
troops in the islands that had challenged us down
there, they still had their main forces at home.
And they had a quarter million troops right around
Tokyo. And you can imagine how urgent it seemed to
our commanders, our senior commanders, Joe
MacArthur and others, that this calm surrender is
great, but we need to gather the means
of equipping these people and control it so uh we
were very busy I can imagine of course uh we were in
Yokohama just a few days and then uh entered Manila
our division uh first guy division has the pride
proud uh history of being the first in Manila the
first in Tokyo and
and the first to reach the 38th parallel in Korea in
the Korean War. But going into Tokyo was quite a
dramatic moment. Tell me about that. Well, of
course, the whole division didn't march in. The
division commander with General MacArthur,
Admiral Halsey, and a combat unit of the division
As I recall, it was a- So about how many men? It
seemed to me it was about 500 men, very small. It was
relatively, of course, the rest of the division is
right there. Made that initial entry and
proceeded to the US Embassy and raised the
American flag.
And I've got a picture here somewhere of that. And
you all marched. And these troops, I was not among
those troops, and these troops marched in
vehicles. into Tokyo and of course the Japanese
were cooperative from the very beginning and this
really signaled the commencement of the
occupation then troops kept coming in of other
divisions and being deployed to various parts of
the country to occupy and again disarm the troops
the Japanese troops and take control of the
equipment and
Some very strange things happened because I
mentioned earlier the occupation instructions,
which included, for example, the usual things
that historically have been done, like taking
control of the government buildings and the post
offices and the radio stations and the means of
communication, in other words, and the airports.
seaports
before we actually landed in Yokohama that day
that I described I guess the first I think first
September we were instructed to disregard
the plan and orders for occupation go ashore and
await further instructions
that's a that's a rather
disturbing order when you're going ashore as one
division with a piece of another division already
there and 250,000 troops available to resist.
But the reason that was done was because of course
the Japanese authorities had been so clear that
they did intend to surrender and that they would do
what they were instructed to do. now how did you
commence the surrender of these quarter of a
million troops did you just pretty much line them
up and tell them to hand how did how did this work
many of them we would communicate basically it was
a matter of communicating through their
commanders and many of them actually disarmed
themselves you know disarmed themselves
disbanded without without there was such a vast
number of them just sent home and we were just
beginning to get in there you know we could not
physically disarm It would have taken God knows
how long. But so really, in many of those cases, the
basic task for us was to get control of those arms
that they laid down and weapons. For example, this
airfield at my unit took over a matter of days after
we got in there. I say days, probably a few weeks, as
I recall. They'd already mustered out. The airmen
just left this stuff. Left a few people in charge,
of course, caretakers, security guards. But I
never saw, by the way, I never saw any evidence of
vandalism, theft, or cannibalizing equipment
and so forth. In other words, the Japanese people
were... Keep in mind, the Japanese people were
totally demoralized. at the time we came in there.
We can't imagine. I don't suppose any American can
imagine, because we've never experienced it,
what that bombing of nuclear weapons did to the
population as a whole.
And of course, the facts of the results of those
bombings spread like wildfire through the
population, you know.
so they were not only disciplined and acceptable
accepting the orders to surrender from their
emperor but they were willing to surrender now
what were the conditions like in Yokohama and
Tokyo?
you mean the devastation? yeah and the amount of
food and supplies as you know they're very densely
populated areas and of course the first thing you
see all kinds of people but the cities had been very
seriously damaged because you know these fire
raids have been going on for a long long time and
just vast areas of both cities were just totally
destroyed you wondered how the cities continued
to function you know with their utilities and
their industries and their commerce but
when I first went in there of course I wasn't too
willing to even accept the Japanese as human
beings because of the the kind of war they fought
but of course you it doesn't take long to realize
they are people are people wherever you find them
in the world and most of them have the same basic
mores you know but my first admiration for the
Japanese came from observing them under these
circumstances pitching in and restoring their
homes their buildings going on about their
business working hard you never saw such industry
these terrible things that happened to them
didn't stop them they just seemed to apply
themselves absolutely completely to making a new
world for themselves a new a new life
I wasn't in Japan but well I left in January of 46 the
soon after we came into Japan and And, of course, it
was evident that there were other units being
brought in, of course, in various parts of the
country to conduct this occupation duty. And as it
became absolutely clear that the Japanese were
not going to resist the occupation and that we had
control of their means of making war and of
fighting locally, then, of course, our
demobilization planning began in the U.S. Army
and Navy, Air Force. So the so-called point system
for rotation home was activated.
And some of the most difficult times of my overseas
duty during World War II came in those few months
between September and January. Because all of a
sudden, in November, all of my cohorts that I'd
gone through the war with went home. General
William C. Chase was commanding the division, and
he asked all the battalion and regimental
commanders, brigade commanders, to remain past
their rotation eligibility period. All of us, of
course, had points to go home. until we could get
the division remanned and retrained to some
degree. Well, of course, when he asked us to stay,
we didn't know how long we were going to stay.
It was not entirely voluntary, I might add, but he
put it on that basis. And so we lost all of our
people, just almost all of them suddenly. people
that came into Japan with us that remained were
those few replacements that had come in to replace
casualties and
losses, which would have been, oh, I don't know,
probably not more than 15% of the troops in my
battalion. And so, we got lower point men to
replace those. But many of these were what were
left in other divisions. In other words, we
started consolidating units, you might say. But
that first contingent that came in there to reman
our units were a relatively high point, too, but
not enough to go home. And then they lowered the
point criteria, and so we'd lose practically
everybody again and get another refill. It was a
very, very turbulent period. made it extremely
difficult to do this was officers and men made it
extremely difficult to do that occupation work
that had to be done but of course eventually they
settled down and I came home in January of 46. How'd
you get along and how'd your men get along with the
Japanese people? Was there any fraternization
whatsoever? Initially the instructions were
there would be no fraternization and that was the
case But, of course, as time went on,
as far as my time there, let's see, I was there
nearly six months. The fratrization, no
fratrization policy was in. But later, of course,
it changed. But we had very little access to the
Japanese or contact with them, very little need
to. because most of our work was on military
installations. Very few of them were around. What
about time off, liberty for your men? Was there a
liberty schedule? Did they ever get off? Oh, yes.
It wasn't an easy or frequent thing, but the Army
immediately started setting up rest and
recreation centers, you know, in hotels around
the country. And I personally never took a day off,
as I recall. But that was our way of giving the men a
break. Send them to a fine hotel with good food and
recreational facilities and good service, and
just rest, do a little sightseeing. That seemed to
meet those immediate needs. And of course, as time
went on, after I left there, I believe frequent
trips in places like Hong Kong things like that
troops could do but basically they had recreation
centers fairly locally. Now in 1945 when the war
was over were you eager to go home? Yes, I was. The
war was over.
My old buddies had gone home I was really ready when
that pole was lifted on me you bet did you entertain
any thoughts of now getting out of the military and
moving into banking well at this point I decided I
was going to stay in the army and I guess the reason
well uh I guess that uh It gets in your blood. That's
one thing to say about it. Matter of fact, when I
came back to A&M after the war on the staff, I saw
many of my classmates over the course of three
years. You know, they're coming back for football
games or visits or whatever, and you'd be amazed
how many of them who had, of course, served in the
war and gotten out, whether they really would have
done it or not, would say, gosh, I wish I'd stayed in
the Army, which is simply evidence that it did get
in their blood. but by this time I felt that it was a
fine profession and I guess it's fair to say that
you don't really experience
the complete dedication of men to their task and
the effectiveness of men that'll match what you
see in wartime oh yeah it's a matter of life and
death and I don't know I guess you I kind of felt that
I'd kind of like to stay in an outfit that could
demonstrate that. That was a part of it. So I never
really, well, as I say, it just gets in your blood
and you become a part of it. Were you married at the
time? No, I was not. I married some years after the
war. Married in 49.
So I just kind of, without having to debate it,
decided I'd stay in. I had the regular commission
of course had been conscious that I was in the Army
it wasn't a matter of staying in it was a matter of
whether I got out or not whether I resigned or not
not whether I'd be dismissed right because you had
a regular commission a reserve commission so you
came home in January of 1946 and became the staff
officer of the field artillery school for the next
six months Yes. Tell me about that. That was very
interesting. You know, I told you I never had a bad
job in the Army, but I hardly had a job at Fort Sill.
Sure, that only lasted for six months. Because the
fact was that the Army was demobilizing, and
officers were arriving home from overseas faster
than they could be placed in an assignment. So I was
at Fort Sill really just being given, you might
say... temporary jobs to do until they could find a
permanent assignment for them which resulted in
my being sent to Washington you might you see there
after uh so you went to Washington in June of 46 but
you only stayed there as the assistant G3
headquarters army ground forces for three months
until October 46 yeah was that another situation
in which they were waiting for you to are waiting to
find a opening for a colonel no uh I felt very
fortunate to be assigned to that position and it
was at a level that I'd never served at before and it
was in Washington in the Pentagon but President
Gib Gilchrist of Texas A&M came to Washington and
said I want you to come to A&M. He did. And he said I'm
up here to get you released from this job That's the
president, Ann Emerson? Yes, indeed. He came to
Washington just to get you? No, not just to get me,
but he was in Washington on business, and he came to
see me and told me that. Of course, I had known him
well as a cadet. He was dean of the School of
Engineering when I was at A&M. And what he was
doing, and he succeeded. I agreed, and he
succeeded in getting me released. what he was
doing was realizing that A&M's cadet corps had to
be rebuilt because after my class was ordered to
active duty on graduation and then the next
classes were they just simply didn't wait for
graduation they just take them out of the classes
and draft them sure or order them to duty if they
were to the officer school or many of them went to
officer school of course that were juniors or
seniors. I don't recall in detail how that
happened. But anyway, the Cadet Corps at A&M was
basically of youngsters who were too young to be
called or who had physical defects. And it really
must have been very disruptive, to say the least,
of the Cadet Corps functioning and perpetuation.
President Gilchrist, with his staff, and I'm sure
the military staff, attempted to find specific
former students that could come in and join the
military staff and help speed the rebuilding of
that cadet corps, which was a very satisfying
mission. Well, let's talk about that because it
lasted for three years, from October 46 until
September 49. you're a full colonel and you were
made instructor of tactics I was a lieutenant
colonel oh you were a lieutenant colonel yes well
of course the primary duty there is the
instructor's duty
I was an instructor of field artillery in the
military staff but the
special duty you might say was the emphasis to
guide that cadet corps rebuilding properly. And I
think some of the things that were done that are of
interest is
that
in addition to the old method of having the active
duty military officers there act as tactical
officers and advisors to the cadet commanders, we
had some special things that we tried to do. be very
familiar now with the Ross Volunteer
Organization. The charter for the Ross
Volunteers was rewritten to make it more a
military and ceremonial unit and less a social
unit. It really functioned as much as a social unit
in its earlier form. And I think we can be very proud
of the Ross Volunteers. We always were, but I think
they're They're on a very fine and permanent
basis. Now, would you not agree? And of course, we
tried to get the matter of discipline and hazing in
focus. And of course, hazing is a, you have to let
those cadet officers run their outfits. There's
no other way. And the only influence that that
staff can influence is through some leadership
and guidance. and gaining the confidence of those
young people.
And so a special effort was made. We had a very fine
commandant there, General Guy S. Malloy, that
many people remember. He was succeeded by General
Hayden S. Bolton. They were both colonels at the
time. General Malloy later became a four-star
general. General Bolton became a two-star
general. General Bolton, I think, was a great
favorite former students because he went around
talking to a lot of A&M clubs and he was a very
colorful character anyway. But for this critical
period it was Colonel Malloy, General Malloy.
The President did direct some major changes in the
policies regarding
particularly hazing that affected the Corps. Of
course, we were still all military at this time.
And this was a very bitter pill for the cadet
commanders. They felt that not only had tradition
as they knew it been disturbed, but that some of
their authority had been taken away from them. And
we had a very serious situation there. As a matter
of fact,
the cadet officers marched to President
Gilchrist's residence. and resigned
en masse. And
Colonel Malloy, this was a very serious thing.
Absolutely. After a few days, and it seemed that
this... What was your opinion of this move? Well,
I'll describe that. But Colonel Malloy, having,
after a few days and just a day, seeing that this was
serious and that they meant it and so forth, I think
we had an inspector general on his way from
Washington very quickly and from a
representative from Fort Sam Houston
so of course Colonel Malloy instructed these
young men to return and pick up their commissions
and they didn't so what was at stake here all of
those fellas most of those fellows were under
contract with the U.S. government, the U.S. Army,
for advanced ROTC. Well, the ultimate outcome of
this could be that A&M would lose its ROTC unit. It
could. Sure. And looking at it in the most serious
light. So, of course,
we were all very concerned about it.
I don't know that this really had much to do with it,
but
about three of us former student officers on duty
with the military department got Colonel
Malloy's concurrence to allow us to attempt to
assemble these cadet officers and talk some
straightforward about the
gravity of the situation as far as the Army was
concerned.